# MyHistoryApp
[IMAD5112 Assignment 1 Report.docx](https://github.com/MozillaGodzilla/MyHistoryApp/files/14891044/IMAD5112.Assignment.1.Report.docx)
IMAD5112 Assignment 1 Report
Student Number: ST10454560
Lecturer: Dukwah Rawal
Name: Ndalo Sosibo

  The purpose of this report is to take you through my that I have chosen to entitle “History Matcher!”. When I looked at the project document and what in this case, our client Sarah asked for, she asked that I build for her a history app as she is an avid history buff. The app would not just be about history, but it would be an app for her students, to enrich their learning experience. The app aims to have the students interact with it and through their interaction with the app, the app in turn would give the students or the learners a desired result that would educate them. Since these are young minds, Sarah did specify that should be fun. History as a subject can be quite a daunting one at times, so the idea of having historical content on an application on your mobile phone indeed does sound impressive and quite intriguing for any young mind. Afterall today’s young minds did for the most part grow surrounded by digital technologies and interfaces. The application I created is in fact an app, that at its core links an age to a particular historical figure. As the user you can enter a range of ages, in this case the students (or anyone looking to still learn!) and the app will give you a famous figure in history that matches the age they typed. The app will tell you when that historical figure your age matched “kicked the bucket”. In that same response the app will tell you a little bit about that historical figure, like what they’re most famous for whether, it be art works, musical greatness, being involved in a World War, political involvement and even polymaths. In this way, whoever interacts with the app gets to learn that a famous historical figure that they adore died at a certain age. I f they did not know of the person, well the app play a key role because it enlightens the learner of the famous historical giant, when they died and what made them such great figures in history. The app at its core is an educational one. At the same time it is fun and its graphics are just the representation of that. There was careful consideration that went to the design of this app. I asked myself questions like, “what sort of background would captivate the user?”, “how can I make the app interesting in its design?”, “how can I make a good design for the app but at the same time keep it simple, not tedious or cluttered and easy for the user to engage with it?”. I looked at the apps I use myself day to day, and although I must admit, it was very tempting to go all out with the design of the app, take the extreme artistic approach (I was quite the artist at high school), I kept it more simple and rather straightforward. I noticed that with ethe apps I use every day, the user interfaces aren’t in your face, they do have some beautiful layouts and designs, but those are elegantly done, and they do not really scream for your attention those elements. More than that, the focus of those apps (the ones you and I use daily) is what the user is there for. For social media, like Instagram and YouTube, the primary usage of those apps is for the user to consume media. Although the apps have well designed user elements, they are ultimately not the focus of the apps, the focus is the media. After this analysis, I went for the same approach. I did choose an interesting background, one that is symbolic of the famous Nazi Germany. Albeit it is understated, allowing for the buttons, Edit Text, Title and response box to be more apparent within the user interface. The dark tones I used in the app, such as the deep reds, blacks and the storm grey, really bring a calm experience to the eyes of the user as they are not bright colours, like dark mode on a phone sets out to achieve. The title I used for the app upon opening it greets the user and invites them to interact with app. Proceeding from there, the user enters the age they desire, thereafter they simply tap the” Generate History” and the app will generate a desired outcome for the user, the historic figure and a little bit about them in the box below. The buttons of the app are rounded to give more of a clean feel to the app and contrasted enough to separate them from the background, whilst still being a colour that beautifully complements the background. It then came time to put my app to the test, literally. I manually tested my app. I put in various numbers and values. Through a couple of times the app did not yield the results I wanted immediately. So, I went back and forth. I fixed my code; I tried different methods and codes to get to the desired effort. The beauty of going through all of that is that you get to experiment with different design solutions. Through that you find different designs and you end up liking something you may have even stumbled upon by mistake. Be that as it may it improves the design, so you think “why not?” I then had to upload the app to GitHub. Admittedly, things were a little bit difficult on that platform. You are presented with a lot of tools that point you to various locations. It is not difficult to find yourself lost on the app. One managed though.  It made it easy to automate my workflow and to automate my build. It allowed for the running of test to make sure that the app is robust. When you are on GitHub you also realise that there is a lot of helpful tools and solutions on the platform. You find useful snippets of code that enable you to do various things in Android studio. You find unique and faster ways to do certain tasks. Oh, and there’s just so many useful tips there too. It is a platform one can certainly use to widen their knowledge of code for sure no questions asked. Overall designing this app for me bought about a series of thoughts and feelings. At times creating the app became very stressful, but a bit of research and pushing through got me through that. I quickly then realised that this project is in fact fun. Sometimes code can be intimidating but you get used to it. It is a truly satisfying feeling to be able to come with a solution from scratch and design the solution and see your creation literally come to life, ready to be used by many people. It is a solution that will help my client and many other people. In this case, this app will help to brighten the minds of young learners as they will use it to learn more about historical figures and they get to have fun while doing so! [Word Count: 1201] 
